#Trampoline examples for AVR8 Targets

This directory shows some examples for 8 bits AVR targets, including some Arduino boards.

For all these examples, the Gcc cross-compiler is required.

##avr-gcc cross-compiler
**Linux** (Debian/Ubuntu) -> `sudo apt-get install avr-lic gcc-avr avrdude`

**MacOSX**  -> AVR CrossPack ([http://www.obdev.at/products/crosspack/download.html]())

**Windows** -> Winavr (integrated in Atmel Studio, or [http://winavr.sourceforge.net]())

##Compilation
Examples may be built either from the command line (a Makefile is generated from the goil compiler) or with Atmel Studio (Windows only).

### Command line (with Makefile)

This is the most simple approach. The Makefile is generated by `goil` (`goil` is the compiler that generates data structures of the application from the an `.oil` description).
The `Goil` compiler should have been previously built.

In the different sub-directories, the command line compilation is detailed, including the flash process.

### Atmel Studio
The Atmel Studio project allows to insert breakpoints and interactive debug. The generation of a project is not automatic, and should be based on the source files that are compiled in the classic `Makefile` based approach…

* create a new C++ project (ATMega328P device for Arduino Uno)
* add all the files compiled using the `make` command line (see section before)
* update project properties (`projet->toolchain->C compiler->directories`) with the directories defined in the compilation rules of the 'make' command line (directories starting with -I...)
* copy and paste these directories in `C++ compiler-> directories` and `assembler/General`
* add the symbols used in the 'make' command line (starting with `-D`...) in the `symbols` part (without the `-D`)
* That's all!
